now Satan stood up against Israel and
moved David to number Israel so David
said to Joab and to the leaders of the
people go number Israel from Beersheba
to den and bring the number of them to
me that I may know it and Joab answered
may the Lord make his people a hundred
times more than they are but my lord the
king are they not all my Lord's servants
why then does my Lord require this thing
why should he be a cause of guilt in
Israel nevertheless the Kings word
prevailed against Joey
therefore Joab departed and went
throughout all Israel and came to
Jerusalem then Joe had gave the sum of
the number of the people to David all
Israel at 1 million one hundred thousand
men who drew the sword and Judah had
four hundred and seventy thousand men
who drew the sword but he did not count
lever and Benjamin among them for the
Kings word was abominable to Joab and
God was displeased with this thing
therefore he struck Israel so David said
to God I have sinned greatly because I
have done this thing but now I pray take
away the iniquity of your servant for I
have done very foolish
then the Lord spoke to Garrett David's
ear go and tell David saying thus says
the Lord I offer you three things choose
one of them for yourself that I may do
it to you
so dad came to David thus says the Lord
choose for yourself either three years
of famine or three months to be defeated
by your foes with the sword of your
enemies overtaking you or else for three
days the sword of the Lord the plague in
the land with the angel of the Lord
destroying throughout all the territory
of Israel now consider what answer
should I take back to him who sent me I
am in great distress
please let me fall into the hand of the
Lord for His mercies are very great but
do not let me fall into the hand of man
so the Lord sent a plague upon Israel
and 70,000 men of Israel fell
and God sent an angel to Jerusalem to
destroy it as he was destroying Lord
looked and polenta dove the disaster and
said to the angel who was destroying it
is enough now restrain Yahoo and the
angel of the Lord stood by the threshing
floor of Ornan the Jebusite then david
lifted his eyes and saw the angel of the
Lord standing between Earth and heaven
having in his hand a drawn sword
stretched out over Jerusalem so David
and the elders clothed in sackcloth fell
on their faces and David said to God was
it not I who commanded the people to be
numbered I am the one who has sinned and
done evil indeed but these sheep what
have they done let your hand
I pray O Lord my god be against me and
my father's house but not against your
people that they should be plagued
therefore the Angel of the LORD
commanded GAD to say to David that David
should go and erect an altar to the Lord
on the threshing floor of Ornan the
Jebusite so David went up at the word of
God which he had spoken in the name of
the Lord now born on 10 and saw the
angel and his four sons who were with
him hid themselves but Onan continued
threshing weeds so David came to Onan
and Onan looked and saw David and he
went out from the threshing floor and
bowed before David with his face to the
ground
David said to Onan grant me the place of
this threshing floor that I may build an
altar on it to the Lord you shall grant
it to me at the full price that the
plague may be withdrawn from the people
take it to yourself and let my lord the
king do what is good in his eyes look I
also give you the oxen for burnt
offerings the threshing implements for
wood and the wheat for the grain
offering I give it all no but I will
surely buy it for the full price for I
will not take what is yours for the Lord
nor offer burnt offerings with that
which cost me nothing so David gave on
on 600 shekels of gold by wait for the
place and David built there an altar to
the Lord and offered burnt offerings and
peace offerings and called on the Lord
and he answered him from heaven by fire
on the altar of burnt-offering
so the lord commanded the angel and he
returned his sword to its sheath at that
time when David saw that the Lord had
answered him on the threshing floor of
Ornan the Jebusite he sacrificed there
for the tabernacle of the Lord and the
altar of the burnt offering which Moses
had made in the wilderness were at that
time at the high place in Gibeon but
David could not go before it to inquired
of God for he was afraid of the sword of
the
a little more